as Gandhi said strength does not come
from physical capacity
it comes from an indomitable will we're
talking about a man that took on an
empire and he did it not by his physical
prowess but instead by not being willing
to be bowed or broken and at the end of
the day that is something each one of us
controls that is something that each one
of us can build into ourselves we decide
whether or not we can be broken we
decide how far we're willing to go and
at the end of the day how far you're
willing to go how indomitable your will
really is comes down to one simple thing
do you believe in what you're fighting
for are the hard times something that
you're willing to push through to
persevere to get to the other side
because you believe to the core of your
being and what you're fighting for and
that is something we all have to define
Parcells that is something we all have
to build into the very core of our being
but most people just stumble through
life they daydream through life they
don't have a plan they don't have
something specific that they're aiming
at and because of that when they hit an
obstacle because of that when they hit
something that pushes back against them
when they hit an equally obstinate force
they break they bow they crumble because
they don't have that thing
that they're willing to fight for they
don't have that burning ember inside of
them that is dictating everything that
they do and because of that they're
never going to be able to get on the
other side of that obstacle because of
that life is going to stop them because
of that every time that they try to
create momentum in their life something
stops them but it's not the thing on the
outside that stops them it's the lack of
something on the inside and it's Winston
Churchill said if you're going through
hell keep going but the only lady you're
going to be able to persevere through
that the only reason that you're going
to have that thing inside of you that
demands that you keep going is if you
believe in that thing if you build
something up in your life that you'd be
willing to die for and you live for it
when you construct that at the center of
your soul then you're gonna have the
tenacity to push through then you will
see that you were not defined by your
physical prowess at that moment you will
understand what Gandhi was trying to say
that each and every one of us will be
made by what we come to stand for each
and every one of us will be constructed
of our will the things that we're able
to do will be defined by that so when
you take the time to build something
build the strength of conviction that is
what will see you through hell
Ralph Waldo Emerson said shallow people
believe in luck and in circumstance
strong people believe in cause and
effect that's the simplest change that
you could make in your life to choose to
believe that everything is a result of
choices that you make and it is a choice
you can choose to believe in luck you
can choose to believe that you don't
have control that you don't have agency
that the world is happening to you or
you can choose to recognize the cause
and effect exists that if you want to
get better at something you need to put
in the work that if you want to get
stronger you need to lift heavier
weights that you can either ask for
stronger shoulders to carry a bigger
load or you can ask for a lighter load
the choice is yours but at the end of
the day if you want those strong
shoulders they're yours to build you've
got to make those choices you've got to
understand the cause and effect you've
got to understand that your life right
now is the exact reflection of your
choices your life the good the bad the
ugly the hateful the painful the joyful
the beautiful everything in your life is
a reflection of you it's a reflection of
the things you've decided to do it's a
reflection of the things you've decided
not to do it's the story you tell
yourself about yourself what you believe
is capable all of those things
they're the choices that you're making
everyday and at any time you can choose
to make a different choice and as Bruce
Lee said if you always put limits on
everything you do physical or anything
else it will spread into your work and
into your life there are no limits there
are only plateaus and you must not stay
there
you must go beyond them even in the
statement you can see him making the
choice about what to believe by saying
that there are no limits by taking
something that other people perceive as
a limit is something that's stopping him
and saying that's not it's a plateau
it's something that I can push through
and you see what he holds himself
accountable to it's not okay to stay at
a plateau it's okay to have when
everybody has them they happen it's a
natural part of the course of getting
better but it is not okay to stay there
and that is a choice that's not
something anyone can hand you it's
something you have to believe to the
core of your soul that it is not okay to
stay in a plateau and it's that that's
gonna push you through it's that that's
gonna make you get up and keep going but
first you have to recognize that life is
cause-and-effect you have to recognize
that that choice is a knock-on effect
you have to recognize that him merely
saying those words out loud have a cause
and effect
they changed the course of his life the
expectations that other people have of
him expectations that he has of himself
and because he understands that he can
control the outside world by first
controlling what's inside by changing
his belief system to match what he wants
to accomplish he's then able to
accomplish what he did in his life have
nothing to do with luck it had
everything to do with the demands that
he made on himself it had to do with
when he got in a motorcycle accident
people told him he would never walk
again not only did he walk again all of
the major accomplishments that we think
about it being that man they all came
after they came after he was told he was
never gonna walk came after he was told
that he was never going to be able to do
martial arts but he did it he did the
grueling work of getting better he
understood cause and effect he
understood that if you chose to believe
that he could never do it that he'd
never be able to do it
but that if he chose to believe that by
working out he could get stronger and
get better and get back to it than he
could and that's what he did so now ask
yourself is your life dictated by luck
or cause and effect are you in control
or is it somebody else is someone else
in control or is it you and if it's you
go build the life that you want because
there's nothing stopping you but you
everyone takes the limits of their own
vision for the limits of the world
Arthur Schopenhauer there is all around
you right now the reflections of your
world belief they're so ever-present
that you don't even see them all the
assumption that you've made about the
world the things that are possible what
you're capable of who you are the very
definition of what it means to be alive
all of it is completely invisible and
you're mistaken what you have for what
could be and once you break free of that
once you understand that right now
you're a moment in time and that you
have latent potential and that latent
potential can be expressed in the form
of skills that you can get good at
things that you can develop yourself in
any direction that brain plasticity
alone
is one of the greatest weapons that
you're not using but you have to move
beyond what you can perceive today you
have to begin to look beyond that and
see that which doesn't yet exist and you
have to remember that many of the things
that are holding you down are rules that
you don't even realize or rules and as
General Douglas MacArthur said you're
remembered for the rules you break and
right now you're following rules that
you don't even realize exists and some
of those rules are simply what is okay
to dream but I'm here to tell you the
power is in recognizing that you can do
it the power is in having the arrogance
of belief the power is an understanding
that
yes you are going to be capable of
something simply because you are willing
to believe in yourself and that's the
thing it's a willingness to believe in
yourself no one's gonna give it to you
even the people that love you they're
not gonna give you that they are
incapable of giving it to you people
cannot see past their limitations and
they take them for truth people actually
believe the things that have stopped
them will forever not only stop them but
they will stop other people how can they
hope to give you anything but limitation
so if you know that if you know that
even the people that love you what
they're handling is limitation with the
best of [__] intentions with all the
love in the world how are you gonna
break out of that how are you gonna
break past those rules how are you gonna
fight the anxiety that inevitably comes
your way when you think about going
against the grain but my friends until
you can do that you can never get beyond
the [__] that limits you if people
said gravity is what it is we never
would have reached the skate velocity
and yet as a species we have been able
to hurl a [__] rocket into space get
it outside of gravity take us to other
planets that is real only because
somebody said I refuse to be held down
by the most obvious rule that we have
the one that everybody says is beyond
reproach and that is gravity
but even gravity will break under the
weight of a superior will so recognizes
Epictetus said if you want to improve be
content to be thought foolish and stupid
can you be content to be thought foolish
and stupid or do you allow yourself to
be caged to be hemmed in by what other
people think and look I get it
I understand the steam of contempt I
understand how much it sucks when
someone you respect doesn't respect you
but you cannot be anything more than
their captive if you think about what
they think about you if you let yourself
be defined by what other people perceive
of as you then you will forever be
limited
by what they give you permission to do
and I don't know about you but when I
was a kid I said when I'm an adult I
will never [__] be told what to do
again I will never be held back by
somebody else I will define myself I
will figure out what I need to do and I
will do it and at the end of the day
that is it my goals drive my behavior I
am not held back by what other people
think about me no matter how [__]
intoxicating it is to be loved
you have to decide what you want more do
you want to be you or do you want to be
someone else's reflection of you
[Music]
as Mark Twain said the secret to getting
ahead is getting started that's
something I want all of you guys to
really embody and really think about
really put at the core of your existence
that step number one to accomplishing
whatever it is that you want to do is
actually getting started and I
understand I know the thing that holds
you back I know the thing that is
absolutely paralyzing for people is you
don't think that you have what it takes
to go out and be good and rather than
face that difficult brutal process of
growing and getting better and quite
frankly facing your inadequacies it's
easier just to sit back but as John
Wooden said never let me you cannot do
interfere with what you can there is
something right now that you're capable
of there is an innate skill inside of
you that's your spark it's that starting
point it's that thing that while you may
not be the best in the world at it it's
a flame that you can fan it's something
that you can breathe life into and
really begin to get good but first you
have to understand the very nature of
progress and that's a Stephen Covey said
you're not the product of your
circumstances
a product of your decisions and it's
those decisions that are going to allow
you to build that skill sets don't worry
about where you started don't worry
about what you already have remember
it's the decisions that you make it's
going down that road it is the decision
to get started
it's the decision to face a possible
failure
it's the decision to get up once you've
failed and it's the decision of what to
learn when you fail do you learn that
you're not
never should have tried well do you
learn a lesson from the failure and get
up and brush yourself off and remember
that at the end of the day you're going
to go as far as you're willing to fight
for and that's it if you're willing to
fight to go all the way then you will go
that far you will set a new bar you will
define for people what is possible to
become that beacon of hope you become
that thing that other people look to as
the standard at the end of the day it
started with huge getting started it
started with you showing up
it started with your pushing and trying
don't worry about what you have and what
you are focus on who you want to become
and the price you're willing to pay
together
[Music]
as Nelson Mandela said education is the
most powerful weapon you can use to
change the world wherever you are right
now listening to this I want you to burn
that into your mind the most powerful
weapon that you're going to have at your
disposal isn't a gun it isn't a sword it
isn't a bomb the most powerful weapon
you will ever have at your disposal if
you really want to make change is
knowledge it doesn't mean going to
school it can be school it can be books
it can be a mentor it can be somebody
else's failure it can be your own
failure but whatever it is to always be
learning to be learning something today
knowing that that's an investment and as
Robert Louis Stevenson said don't judge
each day by the harvest you reap but
rather by the seeds you plant and that's
what knowledge is that's what the
learning process is is you're learning
something today that you may not even
understand how it's going to be valuable
but one day
that piece of knowledge is gonna come to
your aid one day that thing that you
learned is gonna be something that
you're gonna lean on one day that thing
that you've worked your ass off to
understand better than anybody else in
the world it's going to help you change
the world but you have to be doing it
now you have to be learning with an
obsession you have to understand that
ideas inequal ideas out and that you
have to chase that knowledge down that
it is a relentless pursuit and that like
you would build an armada like you would
create a stock pile of weapons you must
create a stockpile of knowledge you must
know and learn and learn and you must
hold yourself accountable every day the
planting those seeds to getting better
to learning more to understanding things
more broadly when you do that there will
be nothing that won't be unlocked to you
that's what I want you guys to
understand it doesn't matter where you
matter where you started your
circumstances the money the people that
you know none of it matters what matters
is how much you willing to learn how
good are you willing to get how much
knowledge are you willing to soak in
because that will become your weapon
that will be how you rise up and that
would be the thing that will protect you
when you need it most
[Music]
for you
so if you want to do something
incredible tomorrow learn today